Direct-Sampling Beam Position Monitor
=====================================

Gateware/Software for Direct-Sampling Beam Position Monitor

### Building

This repository contains both gateware and software
for the Direct-Sampling Beam Position Monitor.

#### Gateware Dependencies

To build the gateware the following dependencies are needed:

* GNU Make
* Xilinx Vivado (2022.1 tested), available [here](https://www.xilinx.com/support/download/index.html/content/xilinx/en/downloadNav/vivado-design-tools.html)
* Xilinx Vitis (2022.1 tested), available [here](https://www.xilinx.com/support/download/index.html/content/xilinx/en/downloadNav/vitis.html)

Make sure `vivado` and `vitis` are in PATH.

#### Software Dependencies

To build the software the following dependencies are needed:

* aarch64-none toolchain, bundled within Vitis

#### Building Instructions

With the dependencies in place a simple `make` should be able to generate
both gateware and software, plus the SD boot image .bin.

```bash
make
```

A suggestion in running the `make` command is to measure the time
and redirect stdout/stderr to a file so you can inspect it later:

```bash
ARM_TOOLCHAIN_LOCATION=/media/Xilinx/Vivado/2022.1/Vitis/2022.1/gnu/aarch64/lin/aarch64-none
(time make PLATFORM=<PLATFORM_NAME> APP=<APP_NAME> SAMPLES_PER_TURN= <SAMPLES_PER_TURN> VCXO_TYPE=<VCXO_TYPE> CROSS_COMPILE=${ARM_TOOLCHAIN_LOCATION}/bin/aarch64-none-elf- && notify-send 'Compilation SUCCESS' || notify-send 'Compilation ERROR'; date) 2>&1 | tee make_output
```

So, for example, to generate the DSBPM application for the ZCU208 board, 81 samples per turn
and VCXO with center frequency of 160MHz:

```bash
ARM_TOOLCHAIN_LOCATION=/media/Xilinx/Vivado/2022.1/Vitis/2022.1/gnu/aarch64/lin/aarch64-none
(time make PLATFORM=zcu208 APP=dsbpm SAMPLES_PER_TURN=81 VCXO_TYPE=160 CROSS_COMPILE=${ARM_TOOLCHAIN_LOCATION}/bin/aarch64-none-elf- && notify-send 'Compilation SUCCESS' || notify-send 'Compilation ERROR'; date) 2>&1 | tee make_output
```

### Deploying

To deploy the gateware and the software we can use a variety of
methods. For development, JTAG is being used. Remember to check
the DIP switches on development boards and ensure the switches
are set to JTAG mode and NOT SD Card mode.

#### Deploying gateware

The following script can download the gateware via JTAG:

```bash
cd gateware/scripts
xsct download_bit.tcl ../syn/<APP>_<PLATFORM>/<APP>_<PLATFORM>_top.bit
```

#### Deploying software

The following script can download the software via JTAG:

```bash
cd software/scripts
xsct download_elf.tcl ../../gateware/syn/<APP>_<PLATFORM>/psu_init.tcl ../app/<APP>/<APP>_<PLATFORM>.elf
```

### Updates

The following system parameters can be updated via TFTP:

* RF demodulation table
* Pilot demodulation Tone table
* Pilot Tone generation table
* System parameters
* Gateware + Software boot file (BOOT.bin)

#### Update System parameters table

An example of the parameters used can be found at: `software/app/<APP>/scripts/sysParms.csv`

```bash
tftp -v -m binary <system IP> -c put sysParms.csv sysParms.csv
```

#### Generating demodulation/generation tables

The tables are generated by a python script `createDemodGenTables.py` located at
: `software/scripts`

To execute that script do:

```bash
cd software/scripts
python3 createDemodGenTables.py
```

#### Update the RF demodulation table

An example of the RF table can be found at: `software/scripts/rfTableSR_81_328_bin_20_conjugate.csv`

```bash
tftp -v -m binary <system IP> -c put <RF TABLE>.csv rfTable.csv
```

#### Update Pilot tone demodulation table

An example of the PT table can be found at: `software/scripts/ptTableSR_81_328_L7_19_H11_19_bin_20_conjugate.csv`

```bash
tftp -v -m binary <system IP> -c put <PT TABLE>.csv ptTable.csv
```

#### Update Pilot tone generation table

An example of the PT generation table can be found at: `software/scripts/ptGen_81_7_low_11_high_19.csv`

```bash
tftp -v -m binary <system IP> -c put <PTGEN TABLE>.csv ptGen.csv
```

#### Update system image file (BOOT.bin):

```bash
tftp -v -m binary <system IP> -c put BOOT.bin BOOT.bin
```

When copying `BOOT.bin`, the user needs to reboot the system via a power cycle
or via the console `boot` command.

Another option to upgrade the image is to use the `programFlash.sh` script
located at: `software/scripts`. The script will automatically readback the
image file from the system and peform a byte-to-byte comparison to detect
possible transmission errors.

```bash
cd software/scripts
sh ./programFlash.sh <system IP> [BOOT.bin filename]
```

If `BOOT.bin filename` is missing the current path is assumed.
